
In these type of questions, we are given certain conditions and we have to answer certain questions that follow those conditions.
Sample Problems
Question 1 : Six events A, B, C, D, E and F happen on six days of the week starting from Monday and ending on Saturday.
Event C happens on Tuesday.
Event A, F and B happen one after the other in the same order.
Event D did not happen on Monday or Wednesday.
1) How many events happened after A ?
2) Which event happened immediately after E ?
3) If D happened on Monday, which event happened on Saturday, given that all other conditions prevail ?
4) Which event happened on Thursday (considering original statements) ?
Solution : 
The day – event plan would be :
Monday – E
Tuesday – C
Wednesday – A
Thursday – F
Friday – B
Saturday – D
 
1) Three – F, B, D
2) C
3) The new day – event plan would be :
Monday – D
Tuesday – C
Wednesday – A
Thursday – F
Friday – B
Saturday – E
OR
The new day – event plan would be :
Monday – D
Tuesday – C
Wednesday – E
Thursday – A
Friday – F
Saturday – B
Therefore, if D happened on Monday, then either E or B would have happened on Saturday.
4) F
 
Question 2 : Seven friends T, U, V, W, X, Y and Z are sitting in a straight line on a sofa facing the TV.
W sits fifth to the right of T
W does not sit at any of the extreme ends
Two people sit between Z and X
Y sits third to the left of U
Y sits exactly in the middle
Z is not an immediate neighbor of Y
1) What is Z’s position with respect to W ?
2) Who is sitting second to the right of T ?
3) If all the friends were made to sit in the alphabetical order from right to left, position of how many friends would remain unchanged ?
4) Which two friends sit at the extreme ends of the line ?
Solution : The sitting order from left to right is : T – Z – V – Y – X – W – U
1) Fourth to the left
2) V
3) None
4) T and U
 
This article has been contributed by Nishant Arora
 
Please write comments if you have any doubts related to the topic discussed above, or if you are facing difficulty in any question or if you would like to discuss a question other than those mentioned above.
 
Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

