
In error detection / correction, we are given a sentence divided into parts and we have to find the part that is incorrect and sometimes, we are given the error and we need to correct it.
Sample Problems
Question 1 : Find the part of the sentence that is incorrect in usage :
A) Agitated over the delay in getting arrears,
B) factory workers protested against the president
C) when he reaches the factory.
D) No Error
Solution : C) when he reaches the factory.
It should be : when he reached the factory.
 
Question 2 : Select the option that replaces the error (underlined) most appropriately
Sentence – The motto of our company is to make sure that the employees are happy, have the ability to be intellectually stimulated and contributes towards their growth.
A) contribute to the growth
B) contribute towards its growth
C) contribute toward its growing
D) No correction required
Solution : B) contribute towards its growth
 
Question 3 : Find the error in the following statement :
A) Sariska is transforming into
B) India’s most fastest growing sanctuary
C) attracting large number of tourists
D) throughout the world.
Solution : B) India’s most fastest growing sanctuary
Here, “most fastest” is incorrect. It should be “fastest”.
 
Question 4 : Select the option that replaces the error (underlined) most appropriately
Sentence – It has been found by the researchers that children with high blood sugar are at increase risk for developing heart problems.
A) were at increased risk
B) have high risk
C) are increasing riskly
D) No correction required
Solution : A) were at increased risk
 
This article has been contributed by Nishant Arora
 
Please write comments if you have any doubts related to the topic discussed above, or if you are facing difficulty in any question or if you would like to discuss a question other than those mentioned above.
 
Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above




(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});

